- [Instructor] This module will focus on building
the user service in Java using gRPC.
Let's first take a look at the overview of the services
that we will be developing as a part of this course.
We'll first code a user service
that takes in user name as an input
and the service will try to retrieve the user details,
which are User ID, Username, Name, Age, and Gender.
We will then develop an order service,
which takes in a user ID
and gets us the orders for that user ID.
The details of the order could be Order ID,
the User ID to which the order belongs to,
the Amount, the No. of items in the order,
and the Date of the Order.
We will then connect the user and the order service
by means of a gRPC call.
How do we do that?
The User ID that we got from the user details will be fed
to the order service using a gRPC call,
and then subsequently the order service
will get us the orders of the user.
Both of these services, that is the user service
and the order service are going to communicate
with an in-memory H2 database for all the data.
Let's also take a brief look at the database setup.
We're going to use H2 database,
this is an in-memory database
that is quickly set up and ready to use.
However, you can use a database of your own choice.
Also, if you think you're not very fluent with databases,
you can always just hardcore data in your database classes
so that they are available for your services.
This H2 database will use two tables.
One, is the user table that contains the user details.
And there's another orders table that will contain orders
for every user.
There's an Initialize.sql file that contains
the create and insert scripts for both of these tables.
This file will be available to you
in the resources folder of your exercise files.
You can just pick it up and use it in your project.
Let us also see what classes we will write
and how the code will flow
to get the user service up and running
at the end of this module.
The first step will be to write the .proto file
which is your service definition.
This will contain the RPC method,
and the messages that you use as a part of the service.
Out of this proto file, we will generate the client
and the service stubs using the Protoc compiler.
Once this is done, we will write another class.
This is the one which will access the H2 database
and retrieve specific details for the user.
Now we are going to implement
the data access object design pattern,
which means it is a Dao class inside which all
the code to connect the database and access data from it
will sit in.
We are going to use plain JDBC,
which is Java Database Connectivity API to do this.
However, you are free to use any other API of your choice,
like Hibernate, Spring Data, et cetera.
All the data that is retrieved from the H2 database
in the Dao class,
will sit inside a domain objects
which are again, plain old Java objects.
The next step will be to write a class
which will implement the server stub.
This is your server implementation
which can hold any other business logic as well.
We will then connect the Dao
and the service implementation class.
So we will transform the data from the domain objects
to the proto objects inside the Serviceimpl class.
Once the transformation of the data
and other business logic gets completed
in the service implementation, we will host this locally
on this machine on which I'm writing the code right now.
The service will be exposed on a port, 50051.
So the server when gets started will be available at a URL
which is localhost:50051.
Then the last step will be to test out
the service implementation methods.
We can either use a GUI client like bloom RPC,
or we can of course, implement the client stub
in order to write a gRPC Java client
to test all the service.
We will do both of the things, we will use bloom RPC,
and for the order service, we will use a gRPC Java client.
This flow of the code is going to remain the same
when we implement both the user and the order services.
There will be a couple of other steps
that we need to execute when we implement the order service,
but we will explain that to ourselves
when we get to that stage.